p8105_hw1_ns3923.md, before:

p8105_hw1_ns3923
================
Nichcha Subdee (ns3923)

## Problem 1

This problem uses inline R, plotting, and shows how `ggplot` behaves
with different variable types. I first load the necessary packages.

``` r
library(moderndive)
library(ggplot2)
```

Then, we will load the `early_january_weather` dataset, which contains
hourly meteorological data for LGA, JFK, and EWR for January 2013.

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
```

Next, we would like to know the variables and the size of the dataset
and the mean temperature. We can use the following code to do so.

``` r
# The variables in this dataset: Names and values
names(early_january_weather)
?early_january_weather

# The size of the dataset as numbers of rows and columns, respectively
nrow(early_january_weather)
ncol(early_january_weather)

# The mean temperature in 2 decimal points
round(mean(early_january_weather$temp, na.rm = TRUE),2)
```

**Discussion**

The dataset has 358 rows and 15 columns.

There are **15 variables**: origin, year, month, day, hour, temp, dewp,
humid, wind_dir, wind_speed, wind_gust, precip, pressure, visib,
time_hour

The variable `origin` indicates the airport weather station. Temperature
(`temp`) and dewpoint (`dewp`) are recorded in degrees Fahrenheit, with
a mean temperature of **39.58 °F.** Other important variables include
wind direction (`wind_dir`, in degrees), wind speed and gust
(`wind_speed`,`wind_gust`, in mph), precipitation (`precip`, in inches),
sea level pressure (`pressure`, in millibars), and date and hour of the
recording (`time_hour`).

Commit message:

Problem 1 Step 5: Create and read scatterplot. Then, export the scatterplot to project directory

p8105_hw1_ns3923.md, after:

p8105_hw1_ns3923
================
Nichcha Subdee (ns3923)

## Problem 1

This problem uses inline R, plotting, and shows how `ggplot` behaves
with different variable types. I first load the necessary packages.

``` r
library(moderndive)
library(ggplot2)
```

Then, we will load the `early_january_weather` dataset, which contains
hourly meteorological data for LGA, JFK, and EWR for January 2013.

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
```

Next, we would like to know the variables and the size of the dataset
and the mean temperature. We can use the following code to do so.

``` r
# The variables in this dataset: Names and values
names(early_january_weather)
?early_january_weather

# The size of the dataset as numbers of rows and columns, respectively
nrow(early_january_weather)
ncol(early_january_weather)

# The mean temperature in 2 decimal points
round(mean(early_january_weather$temp, na.rm = TRUE),2)
```

**Discussion**

The dataset has 358 rows and 15 columns.

There are **15 variables**: origin, year, month, day, hour, temp, dewp,
humid, wind_dir, wind_speed, wind_gust, precip, pressure, visib,
time_hour

The variable `origin` indicates the airport weather station. Temperature
(`temp`) and dewpoint (`dewp`) are recorded in degrees Fahrenheit, with
a mean temperature of **39.58 °F.** Other important variables include
relative humidity (`humid`), wind direction (`wind_dir`, in degrees),
wind speed and gust (`wind_speed`,`wind_gust`, in mph), precipitation
(`precip`, in inches), sea level pressure (`pressure`, in millibars),
and date and hour of the recording (`time_hour`).

Next, we will create a scatterplot of temp (y) vs time_hour (x) by using
code as follow.

``` r
# Create scatterplot
ggplot(early_january_weather, aes(x = time_hour, y = temp, color = humid)) +
  geom_point()
```

![](p8105_hw1_ns3923_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png)<!-- -->

**Scatterplot explanation** The scatterplot shows that temperature
fluctuates over time in early January 2013. The color scale shows
humidity, which is generally higher when temperatures are lower.

We can export the plot by using the following code

``` r
# Save plot
ggsave("scatterplot_temp_time_hour.png")
```
